So let's start with registering the routes then
and for this I will go into the routes folder. There we have admin and shop and this still sounds like
a decent differentiation
and let's start with the shop related routes.
Right now we got the starting page,
now we will also need a get route for /products because if we have a look into our navigation.ejs
file, this is this new link which we added, so /products. We'll also need /cart because that's
another new link we have and
this will also be a get route and I will of course also add controller functions
but I'll first define all the routes. So I'll also need /cart and later, I'll also need a route for
the checkout process,
so /checkout is already something we can also add and obviously you are free to edit any of these
paths to your liking,
just make sure to then adjust the links you might have in your application. Now
besides visiting /products, we will also need a single product and that will then actually contain
some new logic to which I will come back
so let's stick to these general routes for now.
Of course we also need more than just the shop routes,
we also got some admin routes, in a navigation for example,
we got the new admin products here and then we'll also need a route for editing,
we'll add this later and for deleting, also something I'll add later.
So for now let's simply go to admin.js and there I will add
a new get route because I want to load a new page and that will just be /products. Now
never forget this is just as the other routes also already in a path that starts with /admin
because this is what we filter for in app.js and of course we'll also need a controller function for that.
Ok
so this is looking good,
now how about the controllers?
Now we can follow different approaches there,
obviously most of the things we have are still related to products but we also got some new routes like
cart or checkout
and later we'll also add orders for example.
So we got that,
now these are implicitly of course related to products right,
we do buy products in the end
but we could also argue that semantically or from a logic perspective, they rather belong to the general
shop idea.
So now we might be back to actually using a shop controller and a new admin controller so that we can
split our logic by these two sections,
alternatively you could of course also think about using a products controller and a shop controller and
have everything related to products only in the products controller and things like cart and checkout
in the shop controller
but I will go for this setup.
Now that of course means that my two admin related routes, get add product and post add product should
be removed from the shop.js
file and go into the admin.js file,
this makes more sense.
I will also need my model here though,
so let's take that import and also add it here in the admin.js file.
This has implications for my routes because in the admin routes,
I'm still importing the shop controller,
well this should now become the admin controller and therefore I should also rename it to admin controller
up here and then replace it down there and a similar thing needs to be done in the shop.js file in
the routes folder.
There we import the shop controller which is good but I should also name it shop controller then and then of course
also replace that.
So this looks a bit cleaner to me
and with that, we can now also hook up our other routes. For this of course we first of all need to add them though,
so let's start with shop.js and there I will export a new page and that should be my get index function
here, there
I want to render the index page so I will get my middleware function here and in there of course I also
want to fetch some products and render a view.
For now I will therefore simply copy the logic from get products,
so for now the two pages are the same but I will render shop index here,
so using that index page view here
and even if we have the same products on there, we can of course work on the view and show a different
starting text there for the starting page,
anything like that.
OK now we got get index and get products and if we go to the routes file,
this means that for slash anything, I actually want to load the get index function
here in my controller because that is the starting page and it's for /products that I want to load
get products instead.
We also need to load the cart and checkout pages and therefore let's go back to the shop controller
and there, we got get index and get products,
I will export something new and that will be get cart and there again, request, response, next is what
I have here
and I will render a new view here and that view will be shop/cart, pointing at the cart.ejs
file in the shop folder and I will pass some data to it,
for example I need to set the path to /cart. By the way for product list here,
I also need to set it to /products because that is the path we're checking for in the navigation,
we can also change the title here maybe to all products and on the starting page,
I leave it at shop.
I pass the products to both views,
I don't really need that code anymore,
that is a relict we have from the handlebars times,
we don't need that so we can remove that.
Now for the cart view,
I will therefore also add a page title and there, I will simply say your cart and that is it for now,
later we'll also add or load the cart items
but let's not focus on that for the moment.
Last but not least, let's load the checkout page with get checkout
and there we have a request, the response and next and here I then also render a view,
the view here is shop checkout
and then we need to pass some data where I set the path to /checkout and where I also set the page
title to checkout, so that all our views get the data they should need.
Now that's looking good,
let's go back to the shop.js file in the routes folder then and there we can use these new routes. For
the cart route,
we can use shop controller get cart and for checkout, we can use shop controller get checkout, the two
new controller functions we created.
Now we're almost done with the controllers and the routes, at least the basic setup,
let's now go to admin.js and there we also have one route, products,
so let's go to the admin.js in the controllers folder and there I will add a new route,
exports get products is my normal middleware function and here I basically want to do the same as I
do in get products in the shop. Here
I simply want to fetch all products and then render my view, so I will copy that code, go to admin.js
and put that into this route,
fetch all products but of course then render a different view,
I want to render admin/products,
so this view here should be rendered.
I will also name it admin products
and the path will be /admin/products to mark that correctly in the navigation. With all
that setup,
if we go back and reload, we see a white page which is a good sign because it's not an error
and we do see a white page because actually for slash nothing which is the route I'm on here, we load
or we execute get index in the shop controller
and this actually yields us shop index which happens to be an empty ejs view,
so therefore we see an empty page,
makes sense.
Let's take the code from product list.ejs and copy it into index.ejs
and if we leave it as it is and we reload, we now see shop and we see the products, the same is the case
for the products page because they share the same code for now,
cart is empty again
and therefore we should add some content there too, at least we should include the head and the navigation
so that we see something,
so let's go to cart.ejs and add that include of the head,
we don't need product.css here for now,
we got the body start and then we get the navigation and then let's simply also add end.ejs so that
we have a valid html document.
With that added, if I reload this route here, we also see cart with nothing on, add product should still work
and admin products won't work, let's copy the code from cart.ejs
and let's head over to products in the admin folder, in the views folder, paste it in there so that we at
least see that and therefore if I now click on admin products,
it looks like it tries to render the 404 page but has an error there.
Now that means two things,
for one our route seems to be wrong, in admin.js in the routes folder, /products should be right,
yeah but
I didn't hook up my admin controller there, so we should add admin controller get products here in admin.js
in the routes folder and on the other hand, also our 404 page had an issue because there
we see that the path is not defined,
so what I'm missing here is that for my 404 controller, the error controller to be precise,
I also need to add a path here because I try to extract that path in my navigation and therefore I
also should set the path here and I can set it to /404,
doesn't really matter,
it just needs to be there.
So now reloading works because that's admin products
but now even an unknown route will work again.
So this is looking good,
also note that the active item is displayed correctly in the navigation and therefore we made a huge
step forward,
we added a bunch of views, the fitting routes and controller actions even though they don't do that much yet.
Now it's time to work a bit on the views and add a bit of logic already.